# MILLER-VECTORS-PLANES-APP

# MillerIndices
  - Miller indices form a notation system in crystallography for planes in crystal (Bravais) lattices.
  - They are written (hkℓ), and denote the family of planes orthogonal to or family of lines parallel to h*b1+k*b2+l*b3, where bi are the basis of the reciprocal lattice vectors.
  - For more information refer [this](https://web.iit.edu/sites/web/files/departments/academic-affairs/academic-resource-center/pdfs/Miller_Indices.pdf)
# Project Description
  - The project was based on the idea to provide a tool for a better visualization of vectors/planes generated by a particular miller index.
  - The work is the brainchild of Dr. Srikant Gollapudi, Assistant Professor School of Minerals, Metallurgical & Materials Engineering IIT Bhubaneswar.
  - These planes and vectors are then used to define properties such as:
    - Reactivity
    - Surface Tension
    - Dislocations
    - Optical Properties
# The App
  - The app has been made with the help of Unity Engine for designing the VR environment.
  - Google VR utility has been used to transform real movement of the the VR headset into movement in the virtual plane.
  - Currently it supports the following types of latice systems :
    - Cubic Lattice
    - Orthorhombic Lattice
    - Tetragonal Lattice
    - Hexagonal Lattice (Work in Progress)
# Usage
  - A VR headset is required to get the best experience.
    ```
    download MILLER_VECTORS_PLANES.apk
    install the pakage.
    app is ready to use.
    ```
# Demo
  - A video demo of the app can be found at : https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BRNDi4QT9pGzgGG7lBf_4VqAUobz3n0X?usp=sharing
